Hello and welcome back to the course
on Deep Learning.
Today we're finally at step number four, Full Connection.
So what is this step all about?
Well, in this step we're adding a whole artificial
neural network to our convolutional neural network.
So to all of this things that we've done so far
which are convolution, pooling and flattening,
now we're adding a whole new ANN on the back of that.
How intense is that?
That is just, that is something.
That is definitely something.
And so here we've got the input layer,
we've got a fully connected layer and output layer
and by the way, the fully connected layer,
in the artificial neural networks,
we used to call them hidden layers
and here we're calling them fully connected layers
because they are hidden layers,
but at the same time they're a more specific type
of hidden layers, they are fully connected layers.
In artificial neural networks,
hidden layers don't have to be fully connected
whereas in convolutional neural networks,
we're gonna be using fully connected layers
and that's why they're generally called
fully connected layers.
And so basically that whole column or vector
of outputs that we have after the flattening,
we're passing it into the input layer
and here we've got a very simplified example,
just for illustration purposes
and what the main purpose
of the artificial neural network is,
is to combine our features into more attributes
that predict the classes even better.
So we already in our vector of output
in the flattened result from what we've already done,
we have some features encoded in the numbers in that vector.
And they can already do probably a pretty good job
at predicting what class we're looking at.
Whether it's a dog or a cat
or whether it's a tumor or not a tumor and so on.
But at the same time we know that we have this structure,
called artificial neural network, which is designed,
which has a purpose of dealing with attributes
and coming out, we're dealing with features
and coming up with new attributes
and combining attributes together
to even better predict things that we're trying to predict
and we know that from the previous part,
so why not leverage that?
And that's exactly what the plan here is.
So how about we pass on those values
into an artificial neural network
and let it even further optimize everything
that we're doing.
And so that's what we're going to be doing
but let's look at at more realistic example,
because this was a bit too simple.
So here we've got a better looking artificial neural network
where we have five attributes on the inputs
then we have, in the first hidden layer we have six neurons
in the second fully connected layer,
we have eight neurons and then we have two outputs,
one for a dog and one for a cat.
And so an important thing for us to talk about here is
that why do we have two outputs?
We are kind of used to having only one output
in our artificial neural networks,
well, one output is for kind of
when you're predicting a numerical value
when you're running a regression type of problem.
But when you're doing classification,
you need an output per class.
Except for the exception is when you have just two classes,
like we have two classes here, dog and cat
and we could've just done one output
and made it a binary output and said one is a dog
and zero is a cat as that would've worked totally fine
and actually in fact you'll see Hadlan do that
in the practical tutorials
and that's how they'll be structured.
But at the same time if you have more than two categories
for instance, dogs, cats and birds,
then you have to have a neuron per every category
and that's why we're going to practice with two categories
in this example so that we know what to expect
if we're ever have more than two categories.
And so what' going to be happening here?
So, we've already done all the ground work.
We've done the convolution, we've done the pooling
and the flattening and now the information's gonna go
through the artificial neural network.
So let's have a look at how that all happens.
There's the information going through
from the very start, from the moment
when the image is processed and convolved
and then pooled, flattened and then through
the artificial neural network, all four steps.
And then a prediction is made.
And we'll see how this happens in a moment.
It will be very very interesting.
But for now let's just say a prediction's made
and for instance 80% that is a dog.
But it turns out to be a cat.
And then an error is calculated,
well what we used to call a cost function
in a artificial neural network
and we use the median squared error there
or in convolutional neuron networks,
it's called a loss function and we use
a cross entropy function for that.
And we'll talk about cross entropy
and median squared errors in a separate tutorial
and how all that happens,
but for now let's just say
that we have a loss type of function
which tells us how well our network is performing
and we're trying to optimize it or minimize that function
to optimize our network.
So the error's calculated and then it's back propagated
through the network, just like we had
in the artificial neural networks.
It is back propagated and some things are adjusted
in the network to help optimize the performance.
And the things that are adjusted are as usual
the weights in the artificial neural network,
parts of the blue lines that you see here, the synopsis.
Then, also another thing that is adjusted is
the feature detectors.
So we know that we're looking for features,
but what if we're looking for the wrong features,
what if this didn't work out
because the features are incorrect
and so the feature detectors,
remember those little matrices that we had
that the three by three matrices,
they are adjusted so that maybe next time
it'll be better and let's see what happens,
type of thing, but of course it's all done
with a lot of science in the background,
with a lot of math and it's all done
through a grade in descend, with back propagation.
So it's all not just random perturbations,
it's actually very thought through how it's done.
But nevertheless the feature detectors are adjusted,
the weights are adjusted
and this whole process happens again.
And then again, the errors back propagate,
and this keeps going on and on and on.
And that's how our network is optimized
that's how our network trains on the data.
So the important thing here is that the data goes through
the whole network from the very start to the very end,
then the error is compared.
So the error is calculated and then it's back propagated.
So same story as with artificial neural networks
it's just a bit longer because of that whole
for the first three steps that we already had.
And now let's have look at the interesting part,
the really interesting part, how do these two classes work?
Because, or how do these two output neurons work?
Because before we've always kind of had one output neuron.
What happens when we have two?
How does the situation of classification of images play out?
Well, let's start with the top neuron first.
We're gonna start with the dog.
How do we...
The main purpose, what we need to do first is we need
to understand what weights to assign to all of these
synapses that connect to the dog, so that we know which
of the previous neurons are actually important for the dog.
And let's see how that is done.
So let's say hypothetically, we've got these numbers
in our previous layer, previous
in the final fully connected layer.
And again, these numbers can be absolutely anything,
they don't have to be that, they can be any numbers.
But just for argument's sake, we're going to agree
that we are looking specifically at numbers
between zero and one.
So it's easier for us to argue these things and understand.
And one means that that neuron was very confident
that it fall in a certain feature.
And zero is going to mean that neuron
didn't find a feature it's looking for.
So because at the end of the day, these neurons
like anything else on this left side,
is just looking at features at an image.
This is already very very processed but still,
it's detecting a certain feature combination
of features on the image right?
Before in the control step, we had to kind of recognizable
features in the pool set they're less recognizable,
then they're becoming even less recognizable in a flat
and image, and then they get combined, and so on.
But nevertheless, this we're talking about here
certain features that are present image
or their combination.
So a one which has been passed, and this is important
is being passed to both the dog and the cat at the same time
to both the output neurons.
So one means that for us, for all argument, it means that
this neuron is firing up, it's, it's really rapidly
detecting that feature that might be an eyebrow.
It might be detecting this eyebrow again
for simplicity sake, it's detecting this eyebrow.
And it's communicate that to the dog neuron
and to the cat neuron saying,
I can see my eyebrow, I can see my eyebrow.
And then it's up to the dog and the cat neuron
to understand what that means for them, right?
And so in this case, which neurons are firing up?
These three neurons are firing up.
The eyebrow, and let's say the nose is saying,
I can see I can see a big nose, and I can see floppy ears.
So it and it's saying that to the dog, and the cat.
And then what the dog and then what happens is,
we know that this is a dog.
So the dog neuron knows that the answer it is actually
a dog, because at the end, we're comparing to the picture
or to the label on the picture and we know it's a dog.
So basically, the dog neuron is gonna say,
Aha, so I should be triggered in this case,
so these are my neurons.
They're telling the signal that they're sending
to both to me to the dog and to the cat
is actually a indication for me that it is a dog.
And throughout these lots and lots and lots of iterations
if this happens many times, the dog will learn
that these neurons do indeed fire up
when the feature belongs to a dog.
On the other hand, the cat neuron will know
that it's not a cat and it will know that this feature
is firing up and this neuron is telling me
it can see floppy ears floppy ears floppy ears.
But at the same time, it's not a cat.
So basically, to me, that's a signal that I should
ignore this neuron and like, and the more that happens,
the more the cat neuron is gonna ignore this neuron
about the floppy ears.
And so basically, that's how through lots
and lots of iterations if this happens often,
so this is just one example.
But if this happens often, and it maybe one, maybe 0.8, 0.9,
maybe sometimes it won't fire but overall,
on average this neuron is lighting up very often
when it is indeed a dog, the dog neuron will start
attributing higher importance to this neuron.
And so there we go, that's how we're going to signify it.
We're going to say that these three neurons
through this iterative process with many many
many many samples, and many, many epochs.
Remember so sample is a row in your data set
and epoch is when you go through your whole dataset, again,
and again, and again.
Through lots and lots of iterations, this dog neuron
learned that this eyebrow neuron and this big nose neuron
and this floppy ears neuron, they all seem to really
contribute very well to the classification
of what it's looking for and which is a dog.
So that's how it works.
And again, these ears and nose and eyebrows,
those are very, very approximate,
or like very far fetched examples.
Because by this stage, in this whole convolution
of neural network it is completely unrecognizable
what they're looking for.
But at the same time, it is something in the
features of dogs, or cats, or whatever you're classifying.
And then, so let's move on to the next one.
Now, we're going to look at the cat neuron.
But these were going to remember that these weights are,
that we've sold out the dog.
So the dog is kind of like pretty much ignoring all these
other neurons one, two, three, four or five, but it's really
paying attention to what these three neurons are saying.
Now what is the cat's listening to?
Well, whenever it is actually a cat right,
this is an example of a situation when it's actually a cat.
So you'll see that these three neurons 0.9, 0.9, and one,
they're saying something to both the dog and the cat.
And this is again, important to remember.
So this output signal goes both ways, it's the same, right?
It's saying one to the dog it's saying one to the cat.
But then it's up to the dog and the cat to decide to
whether to take into account that signal
and learn from it or not.
And both the dog and the cat can see that this is a photo,
I should have put a photo of a cat here.
But basically imagine a photo of a cat, both the dog
and the cat can see that this is actually a cat.
So basically, the dog is like, oh okay so these whiskers
and these pointing triangle ears and this small size,
I guess or oh maybe this time you know how cats have
these things in their eyes, their eyes are like little,
they're not circles, they're lines or something like that,
like cat eyes basically, these cat eyes,
they're definitely not working for me.
They're not helping me out predict
because every time these neurons light up,
the prediction is not what I'm looking for.
On the other hand, the cat is like, that's interesting.
Every time these, this one lights up,
or most of the time it lights up, it matches my expectation.
It matches what I'm looking for.
Okay I'm gonna listen to this guy more than this one.
This one is the same thing.
Every time it lights up or most of the times,
it's lights up, I happen to get a good,
I happen to be rewarded for my prediction
because I get it right.
It's a cat, okay and so I'm gonna listen to him more.
This one is useless to me because he's not actually,
like he's not even lighting up.
It's a cat but he's not lighting up
so the opposite is happening.
And this one as well, it's a cat, but he's not lighting up
so I'm not gonna listen to him.
But this one, when... what is this?
The eyes, the cat eyes light up.
We can see, I can see that it's a cat, it matches
most of the time so I'm gonna learn from that and I'm going
to listen to these three guys, more often than not.
And so basically, the cat is listening to these three,
and it's ignoring the other five.
And that is how these final neurons learn which neurons
in the final fully connected layer to listen to.
So the output neurons learn which of the fully
or which are the final fully connected layer
neurons to listen to.
And that's how they understand, basically
that's how the features are propagated
through the network and conveyed to the output.
And so even though these features, of course don't have
that much meaning to them, like floppy ears, or whiskers,
at the same time, they do have some distinctive,
there is a distinctive feature of that specific class.
And that's how the network is trained because we also during
remember, during the back propagation process,
we also adjust the feature detectors.
So if a feature is useless to the output
it's going to probably be disregarded,
because this doesn't happen over one or two trees.
This happens through thousands and thousands of iterations.
So with time, a feature that is useless to the network
is going to be disregarded and replaced
with feature as useful.
And so at the end of the day, in this final layer
of neurons, you're likely to have lots of features,
or combinations of features from the image that are indeed
representative or descriptive of dogs and cat.
And so then once your network is trained up,
then this is how its applied.
So this is the next step like we've already trained
up on our network so this happened, let's see what happens
when this network is applied.
So let's say we pass on an image of a dog,
the values are propagated through our network,
we get certain values.
And so and this time, the dog and the cat neurons
don't know they don't have the image of the dog here.
They don't know that it's a dog or a cat.
They have no idea where it is.
But they have learned to listen to
what is being shown here, right?
They have learned to listen to the dog
and listens to these three neurons, the cat neuron
listens to these three.
And so the dog neuron looks at one, two, three
and says these are pretty high so my probability
is gonna be high that it's a dog.
The cat neuron looks at these and says okay this one
is pretty high but these are pretty low.
Interesting, so my probability is gonna be 0.05.
And then that's where you get to predictions.
So then your first choice for this neural network
is a dog, second choice is a cat and that's pretty much it.
So the answer is dog.
And same thing happens when you pass an image of a cat,
you get new values and you can see that even though
this one's high, these ones are low and for the cat,
this one's higher, this one's high and this one's a bit low.
So the probability here might not be as great as previously
but still, you can see that it's a cat of 79%.
And so therefore the neural network
is gonna vote that it's a cat.
And so basically or the neural network is gonna conclude
that it's a cat.
Voting is a term that is used for these guys.
So these neurons in the final fully connected layer,
they get to vote and these are their votes.
And again we are just for argument's sake putting values
between zero and one here.
These could be any values but they get to vote
and then these weights are the importance of their vote.
So these purple weights are how the dog neuron
views their votes.
How much importance is it assigns to these neurons
and to those votes and this is how much importance
the cat's neuron assigns to these
though to the votes of these neurons.
And so these neurons vote, the dog
and the cat based on their learned weights they decide
who to listen to and then they make their predictions
and then hold neural network concludes
that this is in this case a cat.
And then that's and then that's your conclusion.
And that's how you get images like this
where you have a cheetah and then you have a cheetah claws
like a high high probability.
So this is the probability that the network has predicted
and these are laws.
But these still exists because they're still kind of like
a small chance the other neurons are also listening to their
voters and they're saying oh maybe it's actually a leopard.
And the bullet train very very prevalent here scissors.
This one one but hand glass was very close
second and then frying pans stethoscope
because you could see like these neurons,
the scissors neuron, the output scissors neuron listen
to its voters and it had the predominant vote overall
but then the hand glass had a good outcome as well.
So there we go.
That's how the full connection works
and how this all plays out together.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
We're gonna summarize all of this in the summary as well
and I'll see you next time.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.